>> Kevin Powell: So
when I see something like this,
what I always want to go to first
is creating a grid, obviously.
But with grid, we have two
different functions or features,
I should say, we can use,
which are auto fit and auto fill.
And so here I have this grid of mushrooms,
the parent of all of those cards.
I'm gonna give it a class and
I just tend to call this grid autofit or
autofill, depending on
which one I'm using.
If you don't know which one to decide
between coz you have the two choices,
it's a lot like margin and padding.
Try one.
If it's the wrong one, try the other one.
But I find 99% of the time,
autofit is what I actually want.
And I'll explain the difference
a little bit shortly, but
I'm gonna do just a grid-auto-fit.
I'm not calling this mushroom guide,
cuz again, potentially,
I'm doing something very generic here.
This is just a layout that's gonna have a
whole bunch of cards that are going in it
that I could potentially reuse
somewhere else if I ever needed to.
And if I gave it the class
name mushroom-guide,
then I'm stuck having that
as my mushroom guide.
And then I'd have another grid,
essentially the same later on.
We don't need it in this case, but
I'm always trying to think ahead,
is this a generic layout,
or is this very specific?
Which our next grid will be,
where we have the bento layout,
where the pieces all have to
be specifically arranged.
In a situation like that,
you have a bit of a different story, but
here where it's just a generic looking
layout that has specific content in it,
always try and separate the idea of what
the content is versus the layout that
it's living inside of.
So I mentioned that is
going to be a layout.
So we can do a layer of layout and
find our layer there,
and I can collapse these ones down.
And in there, the way I organize this is
a little bit like I have my grid flow,
I have equal columns, sections, wrapper,
and I don't know,
you can just put it at the bottom.
I have the grid in equal columns.
I sort of see it as being in the same
realm of that type of layout,
so I'm gonna throw it in right here.
But if you prefer organizing
it somewhere else you can.
And so grid auto fit, and
that means display grid gap,
probably one rem,
16 pixels, in that range.
Let's go take a look at what that's done,
and my mobile layouts done.
So that's awesome.
Because the way grid works, the first
thing they may think of now is well,
I should just put a media query in and
create the columns.
Grid auto-fit, the reason I like it, it's
one of those intrinsic layouts where I
don't have to worry about
what the break point is.
I just give it some information and
it figures out the layout for me and
it makes it work across the board.
I think one reason people have
hesitancy towards using Grid
is because there's a lot
of new pieces with it.
And you get grid template columns is such
a long declaration that it can be a bit
funny.
But we have grid template columns, and
just because this is gonna be a long
declaration, I'm putting this on
a separate line, you do not have to.
And when I save, Prettier will probably
put it all on one line for me.
And grid templates not with an s,
template columns like that.
I knew there was a typo just cuz the color
gray that was coming on it when I spelled
it correctly,
the syntax highlighting was working.
With my grid template columns,
we're going to do the repeat syntax.
So the repeat syntax,
I could do a 3 and then 1fr,
fr is just use the available space and
it would give me three columns.
Cool, but
then it's always three columns and
then I need media queries to change it and
all of that.
So instead of putting specific numbers
here, as I said, we have auto-fit or
auto-fill.
We'll explore both of them, but for
now we'll explore this, and again,
I want this on a separate line,
just so we can see everything.
And with the auto -fill, again,
there's another new thing you need,
which is the min-max,
which is a CSS grid-only thing.
So again, I think that's one of the
reasons sometimes people have hesitancy
towards grid, is because there's
a lot of unique pieces to it, and
they're different from other things.
But this one pattern you could just
reuse on every website you create, and
you'll find good use cases for it.
So with the auto-fit, it's going to
automatically figure out what to do based
on the information we put on our min-max.
So for now,
I'm going to write 300 pixels, 1fr.
In general, if you're using an auto-fit or
an auto-fill in the minmax,
this value will almost
every single time be 1fr,
cuz that just means take
up the available space.
The maximum size it has is fill
up as much space as you can.
And this is the minimum size here, so the
smallest that column can be is 300 pixels.
We get zero columns and
I might have made it.
Oops, there we go.
Now we go up to two columns and
the browser, as I said,
it's an intrinsic layout, so
as soon as it can fit two columns,
it adds two columns that are 300 pixels,
and then we get to a larger size.
It goes, I can fit three columns now
at 300 pixels, and so on and so forth.
It add as many as it can depending on
the size of the space available to it.
So very handy.
There is one problem with grid
auto-fit is the minimum size here
potentially could cause overflow.
So I'm gonna exaggerate by making it 600,
you probably wouldn't do this, but
if you go smaller than that size,
those columns are 600 pixels.
You just said that's
the smallest they can be.
So you end up with some horizontal
scrolling if the viewport gets
smaller than that size.
Or if you're using this in a layout
where it's a sidebar plus the main,
it can start spilling out the side at
narrower sizes and stuff like that.
The way to overcome this looks really
funny, where you put this inside
of a min function, and the second
value in the min function is 100%.
And I'll full screen that first so
you can see the whole thing.
And so we're doing a minimum size
that is either 600 pixels or 100%.
Which just means that if the parent's
size is below 600 pixels,
it's going to use this 100% here
instead of using the 600 pixels.
It's choose the smaller
between these two values.
It looks a little bit strange in setting
it up like this, you have a min-max
with a min nested inside of it,
but it's the best way to do it.
And if we come take a look now,
we've solved that overflow
problem that we had before.
So I always recommend doing the min with
the 100% even if you're putting a small
number here, even if the declaration
looks a little bit weird.
And the one problem with this is,
if you need to come in and change this,
you're sort of diving through and
it's a bit hard to read and look at.
So this makes the declaration even longer.
So we'll full screen it again.
But I do like coming on this and
doing this as a custom property,
and doing bar say,
auto-fit, min call size.
And it could be a much shorter one, if you
want it to be, but I put that here, and
then you could have that here and
say that it's your, I don't know.
Oops, say that that's 250 pixels or
whatever you need it to be.
By having it as a custom property,
it makes it easier to adapt if you were
using it in different situations as well.
So you could have one grid set up one way,
another grid set up another way,
and just change that minimum column size.
And then when you are changing it,
you're not hunting it down
in this giant declaration.
You're just coming and finding this one
piece of code that you need to come and
change here.
And the nice thing with custom properties
is you can describe exactly what that
number is.
So auto-fit min column size, I think you
could call it again just min column size,
and that would be completely fine.
It's still very readable.
In the off chance that you have a minimum
column size for something else, I always
like prefixing them with something just
to make sure that I don't accidentally
overwrite it with some other custom
property coming from somewhere else.
So I always have kind of verbose names for
my custom properties
that are locally scoped.
So with that done, whoops,
it's on the screen.
If we go and take a look, it works.
Let's highlight you.
And then as it gets bigger,
we got up to two columns.
As it gets bigger, we got up to three.
And then well probably at my screen size
right now, we're not getting to four,
but you'd get to four columns as well,
I believe.
And as far as what, I chose 250 just
because, again, I'm looking at it, and
I'm like, yeah, that seems like
the right space for it to switch over.
It's getting pretty narrow, I wouldn't
want it to get smaller than that.
If you feel like maybe you want 275, maybe
you want 200, you just sort of eyeball it.
If you are working with a designer, you
also prototype this, show it to them and
say, do I tweak this or is it good or not?
If you are working with
a designer on something,
it's really good to have those open
lanes of communication to make
these decisions if you don't
feel comfortable doing so.